In the last couple of videos, we've discussed the mode, we've discussed Q groups and this kind of
graceful shutdown.
Any time a client is about to close down and throughout these videos, he might have been saying, Steven,
this is way too in depth.
There's no way I need to know how to correctly close down a connection and stuff like that.
Well, it turns out all this stuff is extraordinarily important for some reason.
So we're going to lay out inside this video, to be honest with you, this video is probably the most
important one inside the entire course.
It's going to help you understand how this entire asynchronous style of communication between microservices
and even microservices in general is really, really hard to manage on the data side.
So we're going to take a look at a couple of diagrams and.
It's going to be kind of crazy, but whatever.
Let's just get through it.
So we're going to imagine that we're working on a totally different application for just a moment.
The example I'm going to give you is kind of a classic example of how concurrency or handling events
and whatnot can kind of go really wrong really quickly.
So we're going to imagine that we are handling some kind of banking application.
In our banking application, we're going to have a publisher.
That can emit events of account deposit and account withdraw.
And as you can imagine, well, we're going to keep track of how much money a particular user has inside
their account.
So we're going to emit these two kinds of events.
They're going to go over to these two different channels that have been created inside of our net's
streaming server.
We're going to have two services, two copies of the same service called Account Service.
These two services are going to be members of the same Q group inside of each of these channels.
So whenever an event flows into that streaming service, it's the event is only going to go to exactly
one of these two instances.
These two instances of the account service are going to watch for these incoming events.
And then, depending upon whether it is a deposit or a withdrawal, it is going to open up a file.
So a plain file on our hard drive and update the amount of money that a user has.
So by default, this user will have $0 and we're going to increment or decrement that amount over time.
Now, for a real bank, a real bank usually doesn't care that much.
If you go under $0 on your account balance, they're just going to give you a overdraft fee and charge
you some money for essentially borrowing money for some period of time.
But we're going to imagine that our bank is a little bit different.
We're going to say that a user can never, ever have less than $0 if they go below zero.
That is a critical error and it represents something going extremely wrong inside of our application.
So that is a hard requirement.
So let's imagine how our app would work, ideally in an ideal situation.
So maybe our publisher comes online and publishes an event of account deposit $70.
So that would go over to this channel.
That streaming server would take a look at the members of the skew group and then send this event off
to just one of those members.
So in this case, maybe it sends it off to this account service right here.
Account service would then open up that file increment to $70 and that's it.
We're good to go.
Next up is 40.
Maybe that could handle by this one.
We go to 110.
And that's it.
All done.
And then finally, maybe the user tries to withdraw some money.
So that will come down to this Q group, this channel down here, maybe go off to this account service,
we withdraw $100, we still have ten, which means still good to go.
So that is the ideal situation.
But it turns out that there is an almost infinite number of ways that this process can fail extremely
easily.
Incredibly easy.
Just unbelievably easy.
So let's walk through a couple of different ways that this entire system can fail catastrophically.
So the first issue we're going to consider is if a listener fails to process the incoming event.
So we're going to imagine once again, maybe this account deposit goes out, gets assigned to this account
service right here, and then this account service tries to process this incoming event.
So ideally, this thing would open up some file on the hard drive and add in 70 and then save the file.
But what can go wrong with that process?
Well, there's really an unbelievable number of things that can go wrong.
This file could be already locked.
In other words, some other program can already have this file open on the hard drive, which would
prevent us from opening it and making any changes to it.
We could also have some faulty logic inside of here, maybe before depositing some money.
Maybe we check to make sure that the user has the ability to deposit some additional money.
Maybe there's, for example, a weekly deposit limit where we don't want any user to deposit too much
money.
So in that scenario, well, we might reject that event if the file was locked, like I just mentioned
a moment ago, that would be rejected.
Maybe we've got some typo inside the file or something like that.
Maybe there's some totally unpredictable issue where this event just fails to be processed.
So whatever the issue is with our current setup, remember if anything goes wrong inside of our listener.
Ideally we would not acknowledge the event, and so eventually this event will be reprocessed.
But it takes 30 seconds before an streaming server decides to actually reprocess this event and send
it off to some other service, like maybe this one over here.
So while we are waiting those 30 seconds for this thing to be processed again, the publisher might
go ahead and publish the remaining two events.
So it might say, okay, let's do a deposit of 40.
Maybe that gets handled down here and maybe it gets handled successfully.
And then after that, a couple of seconds later, we try to do withdrawal gets handled down here and
uh oh.
If we try to withdraw $100 off of 40, we're not going to go into the negatives.
And we have a critical business air.
So if for whatever reason, any event fails to be processed, it can cause a catastrophic error in our
business logic of our program.
And as you saw in the last couple of videos, it is super easy for that to happen.
So what's the next case in which something can fail catastrophically?
Well, if one listener runs more quickly than another.
So let's imagine once again, we send off 70.
It gets handled by this service.
And maybe this service for some reason has a backlog of events.
Maybe there's like 100 events that it's waiting to process because this virtual machine that the service
is running on is right now overloaded or who knows what?
So maybe this event gets sent over and we're waiting for this thing to be acknowledged.
And in the meantime, we send over another event to the same service, and we're now waiting for both
these things to be processed and acknowledged.
Now, these things have 30 seconds to be processed, and it is entirely reasonable that the account
service might process them within that 32nd window.
But in the meantime, as we are waiting for them to be processed, we might also dispatch a withdrawal.
And then maybe that gets sent to this other account service down here that is really, really fast.
Maybe we just launched this thing and it has an open or no events to be processed in its backlog.
So in that case, this instance, the account service is going to immediately take a look at that incoming
event, tried to withdraw $100 and once again, oops, we're in the negatives.
Critical business air.
So this is an entirely possible and likely situation.
We might successfully eventually process these events.
But just because one event, one to this service and the others went to this service, well, we're
totally out of luck.
So here's yet another scenario.
As we just saw in the last couple of videos, Nats might have a client shutdown, but it won't actually
consider that client to be dead for 1020 seconds or so depending upon those heartbeat settings.
So let's imagine that this service right here gets shut down without it being a graceful shutdown.
Maybe for whatever reason, it just suddenly dies 100%.
But for some window of time, ten, 20 seconds or so, and that streaming server is going to think that
thing is still alive.
So in that scenario, once again, maybe we take the 70, maybe Nats tries to allocate it to this dead
service because it thinks it's still running.
Maybe the same with this event right here and then the $100 get sent over to this service right here.
So once again, these things are not going to be processed.
They will eventually after 30 seconds.
And that's doesn't get that acknowledgement and decides to reallocate them or assign them to some other
service.
But in that 32nd window, well, we're still going to be waiting.
We're still going to go ahead and process with this $100 withdrawal.
And so, once again, we're going to try to withdraw $100 off a zero.
Boom.
Everything fails yet again.
All right.
Just one more little example here.
So in all the slides I've shown you so far, we really made the assumption that we were going to do
the deposits and the withdrawal within absolute seconds of each other.
So in other words, these events were all going to be sent into streaming server at pretty much the
same time.
So let's now imagine for a second that, well, maybe a user is kind of following what a user actually
does.
They don't make two deposits in a row and then withdraw within seconds.
Maybe in this scenario, we say that the first deposit happens on a Tuesday, then another deposit on
a Wednesday and then withdrawal on Thursday.
So maybe in this scenario there is a ton of time between each of these events being processed.
So let's now imagine that a user does the deposit goes over to this service, maybe the deposit initially
fails, maybe that server sends it or resigns it somewhere else.
Totally fine.
If that happens, we've got a ton of time to actually process this event.
And so eventually, even if this thing initially fails, eventually we deposit $70.
We're good.
So then on Wednesday, maybe we do the same thing.
It might get juggled a couple of times back and forth because it's failing to be processed.
But eventually we get our money in there.
And now here comes Thursday and let's do the withdrawal.
So now with this withdrawal, let's imagine for a second that the hard drive that we're storing this
file on is really laggy for some reason.
Maybe it takes 29.9 9 seconds to open this file, read the value out, and then like another second
to actually write the value in or update that value.
So let's imagine what would happen if it took us 29.99 9 seconds to open up that file off the hard drive.
So at 29.99, we open up this value and we get the 110 inside of our application.
And then a millisecond later, like a fraction of a second boom, we just hit 30 seconds and at 30 seconds.
And that's assumes that this service failed to process that event.
And so Nass decides, okay, well, I better go ahead and try to reprocess this thing.
I'll send it to the other service.
But keep in mind, this thing is still successfully processing the event, and there's no actual time
out on the service to say, stop processing after 30 seconds.
Our assumption is at 30 seconds, this thing has totally failed and we don't really need to do any cleanup.
That's what we are kind of assuming right now.
So then like two milliseconds later, maybe at that point this service goes ahead and finally is able
to update that value.
They say, okay, we're going to withdraw $100, we're down to just ten and then we're going to save
that back into that file.
But at that point, Nats has already redistributed that event over to this other service.
And so this service is going to see the incoming event and say, oh, with $100, he had no problem.
Okay, I'm going to open the file.
Maybe now the hard drive is no longer laggy.
So it occurs instantaneously.
And we're going to try to subtract $100 from it.
And uh oh, once again, it would take us below zero critical air.
So at this point, we've now gone through several scenarios that absolutely, positively no two ways
about it can and probably will happen inside of our application.
So we can have some issue with processing these things and try to go out of order.
We might fail because, well, there's going out of order because one is one instance of our services
running slowly or quickly.
We can have the very core issue of one of these services crashing that tries to throw the event to some
service that isn't actually running.
And then, as we just saw, well, even if we don't run into these kind of issues where everything is
occurring, at the same time, we might run into these kind of strange corner cases where we try to
process these same event twice in a row.
So at this point, hopefully you understand the gravity of these problems.
These are core issues that we kind of have a really tough time to address.
And what's more, they are almost guaranteed to happen at some point in time, almost guaranteed even
in the scenario where we imagined that these events were occurring within days of each other as opposed
to milliseconds, we still might run into issues if we try to receive and process the same event twice
or even three times in a row.
So again, these are unbelievable issues that are really challenging to solve.
And what's more, these are issues that we can't just somehow solve by using a different event bus.
Everything we just saw is kind of typical of all event bus implementations.
There's not really anything particular about that streaming server that makes it harder or more challenging
to deal with these problems.
Nonetheless, we have to deal with them somehow.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, let's take a pause right here.
We'll come back the next video and take a look at some different ways that we're going to solve all
the issues we just discussed.